---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a postdoc fellow in the Human-Computer Interaction Institute ([HCII](https://hcii.cmu.edu/)) at Carnegie Mellon University co-advised by Dr. [Yuqing (Ching) Ren](http://www.chingren.com/) and Dr. [Robert E. Kraut](http://kraut.hciresearch.org/). I completed my Ph.D. in Computer Science at Vanderbilt University under the supervision of Dr. [Yevgeniy Vorobeychik](http://vorobeychik.com/) in August 2017. 

I study complex dynamic systems where human decisions are influenced by social, economic and technical factors and in turn shape the design and evolution of the systems. Two domains that I have examined are online open collaborations like Wikipedia and technological innovations like solar panel markets. In open collaborations, users and artifacts interplay and coevolve. In technological innovations, consumers' adoption decisions depend on many factors such as social influence and economic incentives. I have combined advanced computational methods including machine learning, econometrics, agent-based modeling and algorithmic optimization in studying these systems. My work aims to advance our knowledge of the complex interactions between human actors and artifacts or machines in complex sociotechnical systems, and make better predictions on how they evolve over time, and to inform the design and management of these systems.

I conduct research in three streams. The first stream centers around understanding the dynamic evolution of online open collaborations. I apply advanced research methods such as time-series clustering and simultaneous equations to study temporal patterns and recursive relationships between articles and editors in the development of Wikipedia articles. The second stream focuses on developing a computational theory of online open collaboration using agent-based modeling. The model is grounded in a comprehensive review of Wikipedia collaboration research and will be used to simulate editing dynamics and examine the impact of anti-vandalism tools in Wikipedia collaboration. The third stream is my Ph.D. dissertation research, which involved modeling and predicting technology diffusion through a novel machine learning approach and algorithmically optimizing related marketing strategies in the solar panel industry. 

In the future, I plan to continue all three research streams. First, I hope to apply the trajectory clustering analysis to explore structural differences in the evolution of other online communities. Critical events can manifest as changes in more than one variable, so I plan to extend the method to characterize temporal dynamics of multiple variables. Second, I plan to extend my work to a general modeling framework to simulate user behaviors in online communities that are powered by Wiki technology. I would also like to use the agent-based model to study other important issues in online open collaboration communities, such as editor recruitment, task allocation, and governance policies. Last, I am interested in studying innovation diffusion across industries and platforms. I also hope to use the algorithmic optimization techniques to address other marketing challenges such as, sales bots, keywords bidding strategies and automated web designs. 